(energetic electronic music)
- All right, so this is a crypto phone.
And I know what you're thinking,
"What the hell is a crypto phone,
and why would anyone want that?"
And that's exactly what I was thinking
when this first crossed my radar.
So this is an upper,
mid-range Android phone,
with crazy material choices,
from a brand you've never heard of,
with some specific
crypto features built in,
that launched at a thousand dollars.
Now, I know I have been notably skeptical
on crypto and Web3 and
blockchain and the Metaverse
and all that sort of stuff
over the past couple years,
so you may consider me biased,
but I still think if you took
the crypto out of this phone,
it would at least have potential.
I'm serious.
Let me explain.
So the story of this phone
actually starts all the way back
with the Essential Phone.
So I don't know how many y'all remember
the Essential Phone back in 2017,
but that was a really interesting
and exciting new development
in the smartphone world.
We don't get that many
genuinely promising,
new phone companies coming
along and doing good things,
but that's exactly what
this Andy Rubin startup
was promising when they came
out with their first phone.
It was just this refreshing
sort of minimal design.
There were no protruding camera bumps,
no big logos or branding.
They were one of the first
to do this camera notch here,
at the top of the screen,
with the thin bezels,
and they were one of the only ones
using these super premium materials,
the titanium rails and
polished ceramic on the back,
and then it just had some pins on the back
with some magnets for attaching
some modular accessories,
just some genuinely
interesting, really cool ideas
on top of some super clean software.
Now, unfortunately, this
experiment didn't really catch on.
You know, this unfortunate
combination of high price,
mediocre cameras, not that
strong of a feature set
for regular people to care,
launching as a Sprint exclusive,
all of this led to extremely low sales.
And then the company would
go on to dynamite itself
after a bunch of info
about Andy Rubin comes out.
And so we would not get
to see a second try,
an Essential Phone 2.
Now, it sucks to see a promising company
with a ton of talent
just disappear like that,
but something that happens a lot,
a lot of times when these
businesses dissolve,
is the teams that worked on stuff
sometimes will pop up somewhere else,
and work on something else.
And so sure enough, in 2020,
a bunch of the engineers from
the original Essential team
got back together to form
a new company, called OSOM,
and they would announce their
first project, the OSOM OV1,
basically the spiritual
successor to the Essential Phone,
and you can see a lot of
similarities and continuity
in this announcement.
They talked about these
crazy materials again,
this titanium and polished ceramic,
and the rectangular design,
but they also, then tried to
correct a bunch of the things
that doomed the original Essential Phone.
It is noticeably bigger,
and with a bigger screen,
bigger battery, et cetera.
But shocker, they didn't
really get enough interest
in this brand new startup phone
to be able to bring this
whole idea back to life.
It's the classic enthusiast phone problem
where like it's a cool idea,
and some people really, really want it,
but there's not enough hype
to be able to make the whole thing happen.
That is until Solana came along.
So Solana is a Web3 company
looking for new projects
and OSOM is this hardware team
looking for some backing
to make this phone happen.
So Solana would bring the
cash and bring their backing.
OSOM would bring their hardware talent
and they'd partnered
together to turn the OV1
into this rebranded
Solana Saga, crypto phone.
And it would be a thousand dollars.
And that's this phone right here.
So all right, where do we start?
There's basically three things
that make this a crypto phone
instead of just another
regular Android phone.
So the Solana Mobile Stack,
the Seed Vault and the Dapp store
so okay, outside of those things,
this OV1 or the Solana phone
is actually a very average Android phone.
Like specs wise, it's a
Snapdragon 8+, gen one,
so that would be last
year's flagship chip,
but then 12 gigs of RAM and
half a terabyte of storage,
although it's unclear
if it's fast UFS 3.1,
but it's a nice big 6.67 inch
flat 1080p 120 hertz display,
at the front, that gets decently bright,
but it is not LTPO, it's
just a fixed refresh rate,
and then it's powered by a
4,100 milliamp hour battery
with wireless charging.
Not great for the size of
this screen, but not tiny.
And then it's IP 68
water and dust resistant
with a micro SD card slot
for storage expansion.
But then a pair of really
mediocre cameras on the back.
It's got the same 50
megapixel main camera sensor
that's in the ROG Phone 7
and the Oppo Find X5 pro,
but with worse software,
and that's paired with a 12
megapixel ultra-wide camera,
both of which can pretty much only produce
in perfect lighting,
after which things fall apart very quickly
with a lack of detail, excessive noise,
just no really impressive strengths,
just a really very heavily mixed bag here.
But there are two things about this phone
that actually I'm very impressed by,
that I really like, okay?
Number one is the materials again,
just this world class build quality,
because like I said, it's
basically the same team,
the awesome OV1 team,
that came from the
original Essential Phone.
And so they have this affinity
for super high quality materials.
So we're talking matte
stainless steel frame
with colored titanium buttons
and a full ceramic back,
which yes, picks up
fingerprints everywhere,
other than the fingerprint reader,
but dude, this phone is a tank.
This phone is also very heavy.
It weighs like 250 grams,
which is more than an iPhone 14 Pro Max.
It's got these nice squared
off sides, that I really like.
There's absolutely no squeaking,
creaking, flexing at all.
It's just this hilariously,
well-made packaging
of these average specs.
But then two, the other
thing I really like,
aside from the crypto
stuff, the software itself,
once you get into it, is
actually extremely clean,
very clean, like stock Android.
So it is Android 13,
and who knows when it'll
get Android 14 if at all,
but you can dig through everything
and it is very quick and
responsive and clean everywhere.
It's the stock Android quick settings,
the stock Android wallpaper
and customization screens,
all these stock Google apps,
the clock, the calendar,
Chrome, everything.
Now, does any of this justify
a thousand dollar price tag?
(exhales) Okay, well, let's see,
ot's got last year's flagship spec,
kind of weak cameras, weak battery,
not that amazing of a screen,
but it's stock Android and good build,
not really worth a thousand bucks, right?
So that's why literally less
than a year after it came out,
the price plummeted
from a thousand to $600.
So now the real question is would you pay,
would anybody pay $600 for
a barely above average,
well-built, Android phone
that happens to have some
crypto features built in?
(sighs) I guess this is the
part where I have to go over
all of the crypto and web3 features.
So all right, like I mentioned earlier,
there's three things that
make this a crypto phone.
So the Solana Mobile Stack is an SDK
for apps to connect to
this Solana blockchain,
which I mean, it's cool
that it's built in,
but the obvious downside
being this does not work
with any other blockchain.
So no Bitcoin, no Litecoin, no Ethereum,
this is just focused on
the Solana blockchain.
Then the seed vault is
basically dedicated storage
of a 24 phrase seed, stored
in a secure environment,
where the Android OS cannot see them,
so that would let you unlock your wallet,
and then the last feature
is something I've been
calling a D app store,
which is literally a second
app store on this device
that's specifically for crypto
apps, crypto focused stuff.
So Phantom Wallet is on here,
OKX, a crypto exchange is on here,
Brave Browser, things like that.
There's an app called Minty Fresh
that lets you turn photos
from your camera roll
into NFTs in a few
seconds and a few clicks,
if you're into that I guess.
But those are the only three things
that really make this a crypto phone,
and one of 'em, the Dapp store,
is not really even that special
because it is coming to other phones
and you'll be able to get
it on a non crypto phone.
So there's that too.
Now, the other stuff,
I think you can actually make an argument.
is really, really cool to
have built into the phone
and actually secure like that.
And if you are in the Solana ecosystem,
this is the only place
you can get that stuff.
But man, I feel like
that's about the most niche
(laughs) feature possible.
Like remember we were just
talking about the Zenfone 10,
how I love that phone,
it's a super great phone.
It's just a shame it won't sell
because not as many
people like small phones.
Do you think the number of people,
who are in the Solana ecosystem
and want to buy a phone
that has some of those features built in,
is greater than or less
than the number of people
who want a small phone?
Basically,
the number one coolest thing
to come outta this project,
to me, is exposing me to
this thing right here,
which is the cable that comes
in the box for this phone.
This is a braided USBC, a USBC cable,
but not just any cable.
At the end here is a hard
switch that blocks all data
and only lets power through,
just making it a charging cable,
and that's actually pretty sick,
highly effective for preventing
something called juice jacking attacks
where if you plug into, like
a public outlet somewhere,
but that outlet is malicious
and is gonna try to upload
malware to your device
or download photos or something,
this cable will not let that
happen, just blocks all data.
So if you're plugging
into an extremely rare,
public USBC port, (laughs)
this is actually a great tool to have,
but it's also not that special
and it's available on
Amazon for like 30 bucks,
so I'll also link that below.
So at this point, I don't
even have to really tell you,
but the crypto phone is basically
a pretty standard Android phone
with a couple kind of cool,
but extremely niche crypto features
for one specific crypto stack,
one that happens to also
be tanking pretty hard
and has been tanking for months.
And I also don't even
really have to tell you that
there's basically no reason
for 99.99% of people to buy this.
Even if you were to try to buy this phone,
just for a nice clean stock Android phone,
and just totally ignore
all the crypto features,
you can get a lot more phone for 600 bucks
for the same price you could get a Pixel 7
or probably Pixel 8, by
the time it comes out.
You could get a refurbished Galaxy S 23.
You could get any number of 1+ phones.
I just don't think this is
anywhere near the top of the list
for 600 bucks.
And really that's the shame of it.
Being a brand new phone
company is really hard
unless your name is Carl Pay, apparently.
And so I wish there was a world where
the OSOM OV1 could just
exist and could thrive,
and a small niche
community, could love it,
but now instead,
this becomes the perfect
embodiment of crypto in 2023.
At best, ahead of its time,
but at worst, completely useless
to most everyday people
and gives whatever else
is going to follow it
an even harder uphill battle.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you on the next one.
Peace.
(cheerful electronic music)